So, guys, in this lecture, we do we will do a short exercise on the right hand side, you can see
that I have written a very short and simplest program that you can ever write under.
The name of the program file is really outdoorsy.
Right.
And on the left hand side, I simply compiled this file and create an executable.
So I have created an executable whose name is Mahmoudi, let out now using CISE command and provide
the executable as an argument to the size command.
It will show you the size of text segment data segment which is initialized and unanalyzed data segment
which we call it as VSS.
So you can see that the size command shows the size of text segments, initialize data segment and unanesthetized
it.
A segment.
The summation of all these three segment is listed in the decimal format as one three one three and
in hexadecimal format.
The summation of all these three segments is 521.
So using Cyber Command, you can actually verify the size of these three segments.
Now we can see that the size is not zero because the compiler inserts a lot of information in the executable
that is created and that information is used by the operating system to actually execute this binary.
So binary here means the executable file.
Now, you can see that on the right hand side, if I insert a global variables into global and it is
not initialized.
Right.
So what do you expect?
What will be the change in these figures that you can see on the left hand side?
So let me compile the program again and create an executable.
And using this command, you can see that the size of initialized data segment has been increased from
four to eight.
Right now, let me initialize this global variable with some value, say five, right?
So I will compile the program again.
And using this command, you can see that the size of an initialized at a segment is restored to fold.
But the size of that segment is now increased by four because we already know that all the initialized
global variables are stored in this data segment.
Similarly, now let me introduce one static variable.
And let's say that and let's say that the name of the static variable is X and initialize this to term.
So again, I create an executable and using sice command, you can see that the size of initialized
data segment is again increased by four.
It means that this variable s has been saved in the initialized data segment of the process which will
address the space.
So using Space Command, you can always inspect the text that initialized data segment and initialized
in a segment of a given executable.